[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Just for the sake of
keeping going along the same lines
of thinking that we had before.
I'm gonna skip items one and
two in the task 4.
I'll come back in the very end and
do those quickly those are kinda some
throwaway things for me to try but
3 and 4 are really spot on to
what we were just talking about.
So I already showed you that
we could refactor to add
an API method which was this load
person method to our API and
then we could directly call it from
inside of the carousel function.
Okay?
There's a couple of problems with that
when you start thinking of an even bigger
level at an even higher
level of abstraction.
So we certainly improve things by doing
that compared to what we had before.
But even this may not be the end goal or
the best possible design.
So this next line of thinking is an even
further stretch of your envelope.
Conceptually speaking, okay?
One of the things that we've done here is
that even though we have the two actual
pieces of logic separate.
We've created a very strong
tie between these two modules.
And we only have one of them, so
it doesn't seem like such a big deal.
But if the carousel module had 15
different functions in it, and it was
calling five or ten public API methods on
the details module, and if the details
module was calling the carousel
module in a bunch of different ways.
There's an awful lot of spaghetti mixture
that would be happening between the two.
That design is certainly functional and
that's what most people think
constitutes proper software design.
My feeling is it's functional but
it's not ideal.
I don't like those strong
brittle ties with things.
The carousel module should to
the extent possible be completely
independent from the details module.
It should know as little as
possible about the details module.
In fact, it'd be good if it
didn't know about it all.
That seems like an anachronism.
It seems like It's impossible for
the carousel module to call the details
module or
to invoke some of it's behavior and
simultaneously not know
about the module at all.
It seems impossible right.
It turns out that in software design
especially in JavaScript we do have,
no I'm not going to call it like silver or
magic bullet or anything.
But we do have a way to accomplish
to square those two things together.
We can create a layer of indirection which
allows the two things to stay separate
without knowing about each other but
still communicate.
And the most natural way to
do that is through events.
Now you've probably picked up on the fact
that we've been dealing with events like
clicking on buttons, right?
I click on a button.
That fires an event that I can listen to.
But another way of thinking about it
is what if I don't have dom elements
at all involved what if I just have two
random JavaScript objects in my app,
two different modules.
And they don't know about each other but
they do need to cooperate
to get the job done.
Could I create a layer of indirection
between them with an event system
such that this guy over here
could send out an event,
doesn't care who captures the event.
And this guy over here could listen for
the event, doesn't care who sent it.
Do you see how that would create this
sort of triangular layer of indirection.
Where they don't have to
know about each other but
they still are able to talk
through this intermediary.
And what I've just described this
idea of sending out an event,
aka publishing an event.
And listening for an event.
Aka subscribing to an event.
If you've been around at all in the
development industry and web industry for
a little while you may
have heard few years back,
pub sub was a big hot buzzword
that was going around.
And people were creating companies for
pub subbing and frameworks and
all kinds of crazy things and
they were books written about it.
And all of that nonsense boils down to
do I have an object that can listen for
events and send events?
You can take all of that nonsense that
was going on for two or three years and
boil it down to a centralized object that
can emit events and listen for events.
So I could create one
of those really easily.
If I could do that I could create
a layer of indirection between
all of my modules so that they didn't
have to know about each other.
And that's what we're gonna get out.
That's kind of the final thing that
we wanna spend our time looking at.
So I have provided to you,
I've included to you a file
called event emitter two dot JS.
We're not loading it yet but
we're gonna load it now.
So I'm gonna add it to my list.
So script source js/eventemitter2.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's one of those cans
where the label tells you exactly what
it's doing on the inside of the box.
That thing creates something that
lets us make event emitters.
It's a tiny little
library like really tiny.
But the great part about it is,
it is the exact same API as how events
work in the node world on the server.
It literally took the event emitter API.
They added some extra stuff to it but
they took the event emitter API and
they ported it so
they could be used in the browser as well.
And when we talk tomorrow afternoon if
any of you come tomorrow afternoon.
We talk about kind of the final
arc of all this discussion.
We talk about sharing code between things
that holy grail of sharing code is when
I don't even have to switch I can just
use the exact same code in both places.
So what's nice about event emitters
is I can write the same code,
and it'll run identically no
matter what the environment.
For our purposes, it's just a tiny
library that lets us do pub sub without
any need for a crazy framework,
or service, or an app, or book.
We don't need any of that, we need
an object that we can send events to and
listen to events.
So here's how we use eventemitter,
let's go back to our app.js,
and let's make an event object.
I'll put it on the window so that it's
going to be available to everybody, so
this is a global variable
that everybody can access.
I'll call it EVT,
that's my normal style of how I do it.
So I'll call it EVT.
And it needs to be an event emitter.
So I'm just gonna say new
EventEmitter2 cuz the event
emitter is the constructor for
this kind of object.
We haven't dealt with what new does
just don't worry about that detail.
It's constructing something.
So that thing is a thing that I
can use in multiple places now.
So let's go back to the code
where I am calling .loadPerson.
If I could think about that in terms of
not telling you exactly what I want to do
but describing abstractly or
indirectly what I hope would happen.
I would,
instead of calling this a loadPerson,
I would call this event that
has happened person selected.
>> Kyle Simpson: Cuz I don't care what
happens when a person gets selected from
the abstract perspective,
from the conceptual perspective.
I don't care what you do with it,
I just wanna let you know that
a person has been selected.
So if I did,
EVT.emit which is how you send events.
And I used, I just make up an event
name like person-selected.
And I need to give it some data.
The only piece of data that I
need to pass along is the ID.
So we've taken one line and
replaced it with that other line.
I'm now sending out an event
called person-selected and
I do not care who if anyone
listens to the event.
It's completely,
I don't even know that there is
somebody that cares about the event.
But I just wanna let people know
just in case anybody wanted and
in case anybody care.
Here is an important detail what if there
was more than one different part of
the application that cared.
That's totally cool with me.
I don't care.
If there were 15 different
parts of the application
that each had a special different job
to do once a person was selected.
That's cool with me.
Cuz I just send out the event to the hub
and I let the other people deal with it.
Okay.
It's an extra layer of indirection here.
Now, how do I use that
on the details side?
Well, I come to the details module.
And, I need to listen for that event.
A good thing to do in my init function,
I'm going to listen.
EVT.on is how we listen.
For the person-selected event.
And, I need to have it call a function.
Anybody have any guess as to
what function I want it to call?
>> Speaker 2: Load person.
>> Kyle Simpson: Load person.
That's cool right?
I don't even need to make a new
function I'll just call it loadPerson.
It's nice and convenient that it happens
to be passing along the data to me that
I'm going to receive from that event.
Do you see how easy that was to actually
create a full layer of abstraction or
indirection between the two?
Now neither one of the two
knows about the other one.
They don't need to.
And because I've done that, I've made
my code significantly more flexible.
You know what my favorite trick is
when I deal with stuff like events?
Now I can independently
test these two modules.
I can create a test mock that creates
a fake event called person selected.
Doesn't wait for somebody to click
a button I just make a person event.
And I throw out a piece of data and
I test whether or
not the details module receives that
event and does what it needs to.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because I have
that layer of indirection,
I don't have to manually call a thing.
I can just throw out events.
Or I can test the carousel module by
setting up a listener to see if that event
gets fired.
And see if the carousel does his job.
>> Kyle Simpson: So events create that
abstraction which lets me have a lot more
flexibility.
A lot less rigidity to my design,
more flexible for testing and so forth.
I'm a huge fan of this
approach to software design.
I don't like having one
module calling another.
Wherever possible, if I can avoid it,
I try to avoid that,
it's not always possible.
But were possible if I can avoid it,
if it's just like a throwing a thing
over the fence sort of an action and
I don't really need a response back.
I just publish an event.